A quantum computer is a digital computer capable of exploding quantum
currents among the physical two-state systems that store the binary arithmetic information.
The factoring integral is to find its expression as a product of prime numbers.
The most impressive, most important and best known thing about a quantum computer
that it can do is to factor its spectacular efficiency, the product of two enormous prime numbers.
But what an earth can quantum mechanics have to do with factoring.
This question bothered me for four years from that time I heard about the discovery
that a quantum computer is spectacularly good at factoring until I finally took the
trouble to find out how it was done.
And the answer you will be relieved but if you were like me also disappointed to learn
is that quantum mechanics has nothing at all to do with factoring.
But it doesn't have to do with waves.
Pretty important ways of periodic so it is not very surprising that quantum mechanics
might be useful in efficient and revealing features associated with periodicity.
Quantum mechanics is connected to factoring through periodicity.
It turns out purely arithmetic reasons are having nothing to do with quantum mechanics.
That if we have an efficient way to find the period of a periodic function then as we
shall discuss we can easily factor the product of two enormous prime numbers.
I have quantum computer provides an extremely efficient way to find periods.
This is of considerable practical importance because the great difficulty in factoring
such a product where the two enormous prime numbers are typically each several hundred
days long is the basis for the security of the most widely used encryption scheme for
protecting private information sent over the internet.
In 1994 and 5, a pretty sure discovered that a quantum computer will be super efficient
at period finding and thereby it was a potential threat to innumerable secrets.
Went to explosion interest in developing quantum computation.
The threat is only potential because no quantum computer capable of anything like serious
period finding actually exists.
I suspect the emphasis of being put on factoring rather than period finding because factoring
is more famously associated with the RSA code breaking.
Although as it happens period finding can be used directly to crack the RSA code without
any need for a due to an entire pattern.
Factoring is also a mathematical concept more familiar to the general public than period
finding.
For instance the focus on factoring has led to some spectacular misinterpretations of
Schor's algorithm or what Einstein called secular press.
For example the New York Times Science writer George Johnson says in his book on quantum
computation the Schor's got through time that when the algorithm has done its job the
solutions, the factors of the number being analyzed, will all be in superposition.
Elsewhere he says that a quantum computer can try out all possible factors simultaneously
in superposition, think elapsed revealed the answer.
Neither of these things bears a status of resonance to what the algorithm actually does.
